Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.6
Creation-Date: 2024-07-23T21:02:40-07:00

====== REC005.txt ======
all right it's almost 1 a.m. I just wasted 47 minutes on my phone trying to explain
something I can do it a lot faster on PC but yeah I'm in here should stop
bringing my phone out here just get a light bulb in my recorder and just sit
down and be introspective from time to time


====== REC006.txt ======
So I don't know what time it is, but I just powered my phone off.
I'd imagine it's probably like two o'clock, two thirty, maybe three a.m.
I don't know.
What's going on, it goes.
We can get some more notes done.
More notes taken.
Down.


====== REC009.txt ======
So right now I'm on the side, I'm on the porch, it's lit at night.
Despite it being calm, despite it being quiet and well lit and fairly communal, I don't
feel as near me out. I don't feel comfortable in this relative space, relative to the adjacent
space of community and socialization and, you know, the hearth, the fireplace, the local pub.
And though it sounds bizarre, the public bath houses you see in Japan, or are there East Asian cultures?
Communal spaces, places like restaurants, for example, I'm going to have to reiterate all of this because it could be a lot better flow and restaurants.
So the restaurants themselves, they're open, they're accessible, people don't walk in or something, and then these restaurants aren't corporation owned.
If they're not family owned either, it's like a public activity, almost.
You can make friends that let you join the group, that group, that close-knit, go into people working together using one person's shared space.
You are building families per se, in a more socially developed way, where humans trust each other, and aren't as pessimistic or cynical.
We know that no one person's internal intent means to cause harm, which is to say no one believes themselves to be evil, or...
...protagonist. Everyone is the protagonist in their own story. That's probably the most succinct way of saying it, I suppose.
There are the maligned psychologically damaged, but even the maligned themselves, despite their atrocious actions, still believe themselves to internally be acting towards the thing that is right to them internally.
You have to make sense. No such thing as free will, hard to terminus, and all that. I need to better illustrate this. Probably you use a... be more subtle with it.
Ocipitous tale? Appeticus? I don't know. I'll find it. It's on Crash Course.
I'm really related to the hard to terminus and video, so that's... they titled it free will. Hard to terminus and free will, but there's also hard to terminus and that is the mathematical position to have, I suppose.
Close knit social spaces with open parks, with porches that are not private, but are also not public. They're open, but not necessarily either or they're at the middle round between your cozy little room.
And your social hub, right, at the middle round, you're hangout point, you're... I guess you're rooming in of itself, so you're bed room.
It's an hangout point, granted it's the right size. I'll figure it out. We can probably get away with less rooms than a given household.
I wonder if the living room and the bedroom are the same place, but then what if we need that extra space? What if we need that? You know, we need it, we need it. That's right.
We like the solitude area.
So, there's the working up. There's your internal space around your head, and there's your bedroom.
And then there is your living room. And then after there, I think that's what I'd like to call the hearth.
It might be in between the living room and the bedroom, actually. So a step below, so it would be living room, hearth, bedroom, hearth, living room.
And then you'd have, let's say, your porch, right, and then after that you have a little bit of a natural space in between there, like that's where a lot of trees are.
For a lot of, you know, it's open up to walkable space, right? And then you have...
Well, geez, if you get rid of cars, you've got really cozy area for humans.
Let's see, you have another space. There's a middle space within this space that's like a public park. That brings multiple communities together.
That was just one small community. It's a lot of communities interacting in certain events. Or, you know, this is a public venue. You can explore wherever you want to explore.
Using the art and science and mathematics and everything else in between. It's like a... not a public... not necessarily public speaking, there can be public speaking.
But it's like a public forum of acting and art and public publication of interesting science and the news of the world.
It's a word of mouth with an emphasis on being there in the moment and engaging.
And also using digital media to archive the event.
So, people go just through and some people go to record to the people that don't want to go, but a lot of people don't want to go.
So, you have an archival, you know, a secondary audience. People would just... I'm sure they want to watch the event. And people actually go. And most people in these small communities do attend the event.
Well, that's fine either way. There's a gradient there. You can spend a lot of time there, even a little time there. It depends on the event. There's lots of events. They're going all the time.
And then you have... let's see, you have four of these and a gradient. And then in the middle of those four, there is another larger social space.
This is more on the group activities. It's more rigid, it's more structured, right? But this is... it's still open, but it's meant for the arts and the sciences and philosophy and history and...
every other aspect of humanity, culture, sociology, physiology, mathematics, biology, there's authority.
You're going and you're... you're taking all these aspects of humanity.
It's a place for learning and growth and... community. And let's stand in the walkways between these public places.
The places in the streets, the places where... are just open enough to encourage interaction. Like they're not the small shortcuts, the quick little paths between buildings.
It's the public walkway, I guess. And everything you need is within walking distance. You can produce and manufacture anything at home using the resources that you have available.
Acquisition of resources is an issue, so you can really print whatever you can... whatever you can tend to. And then you can use these...
We had to have dedicated science areas for large projects on these structures. We could have dedicated launch pads. Just make a practical one. Like, okay, this is a launch pad. This is going to be strictly for going to space. And that's fine, people accept that. It's a huge need.
So that's like the top. It's near the top destruction. There's a bunch of elevators going up to reach it. And then it's the highest they can conceivably build with the materials they have at hand.
Safely. With the dew weight in mind. So a launch pad above all that. So that's the big science. And you can also do the moderate, moderately more complex to below that.
It's interesting. You can have cones that go from the top the most needed for this little space to the... you bring it down like a series of cones that get smaller and smaller down the Alice pillar.
Down the Alice Tether. Until the very bottom we have wide open fields. A series of isolation. A series of varying types of isolation openness to the point where...
It's a gradient of real civilization. You're in the... let's say that the smallest bit of this piece, let's say the smallest bit of this piece is up till the...
The major component of every single one. It's up till the public social space. No, no, it's up till the... I'm going to reiterate. Hang on.


====== REC010.txt ======
Okay, so imagine this last bit, new iteration.
So there are three major spaces. There is the communal, space, the communal disk, there's
a lot of these disks, disk, criss-discs, cones. I'm going to read it on that, that's silly.


====== REC011.txt ======
a re-iteration iteration, hopefully hopefully I did look at that in the last
iteration because that was not a Freudian thing. That was just a sub-up of human language.
Anyway, I'm gonna try that again, actually.


====== REC012.txt ======
Okay, imagine three types of cones vertically stacked on the atlas tether and the majority
of these cones are the up till the communal space, up till the shared space, the public
market so to speak, but the public market is never changing arena for the arts and sciences
and mathematics and this is the the theater in the center of every every small town, right?
And then you have four of these towns and you have the, well, the atlas pillar itself, actually.
Oh man, yeah, that's the middle piece.
And that goes up, there's a bunch of elevators, yeah, some for industry or for industry, for
for major industry and then 16 or so for a moderate industry and then you, and then smaller
lots and lots of smaller elevators and then above that cone, there is a larger, let's
say there's a series of smaller cones, yeah, lots of them look a spine and you have this larger
cone and this is, this is the moderate industry and it's huge, it's massive, but this is the,
it's actually, it's not that much bigger, it's crumb and thrice, it's just a moderate larger,
just for workshops and larger projects, but not so big that it's rocket level kind of tech.
And then you have the, I don't know above that, that is, that is a, you have several,
there's a lot of, lots of those meaty ones too, but then you have these super large,
just this mega structure at the top, that is where, that's very up for part of the atmosphere,
that is dedicated to launching ships in the space and you could say the, the cone is actually
slightly curved because of how large it is in the emitter, it's like a, imagine a snow club,
yeah, you've got a hot piece of metal, not like a melting substance, yeah, it's being pulled,
imagine to, imagine having a stick in the center of a planet, the axis and you're gripping
onto it, you're holding onto it and you're squeezing putty or magma, that works.
So that's how you're going to do it, that's how you're going to do it, that's how you're going to do it.
All right, and that magma,
come on, okay, and that magma,
and squeezing into directions, squeezing out on the axis of the planet and you're spinning around,
like a, imagine two buckets of water, you know, and spinning a rotation, wanting to charm and
you're, it's all the water's being thrown out into directions,
to upset directions, it's like, you know, gravity, anyway, the magma spills out of the, the
upper atmosphere, the planet almost, and it curves off because it's so,
so, so, I mean, it's like, that sets the, I like, curves off because that's the design of
the structure, my bad, that was like, the visual for how the structure looks, the cone like,
shape, the kind of curves off into the curvature of the planet.
Geez, I've got to describe that in a more coherent, coherent way, that's ridiculous.
Okay, setting up for now, that was very long tangent.


====== REC013.txt ======
Superstition precludes my inherent, my personal superstitioning, my personal superstition
precludes me from not wanting to verify that the save indeed, the save thing was indeed
working, so I have made another recording because why I do not know, because superstition
that I can't get rid of, it's weird, what is that?


====== REC015.txt ======
Natural spaces have creeks and groans.
Natural spaces have creeks and groans.
Natural spaces have creeks and groans.


====== REC016.txt ======
and be the one


====== REC024.txt ======
He's just not going to move.
He's one of them.
I want to learn.
I want to explore where it says place.
I'm standing here and it's all.
He doesn't spend too much time here.
He spends all his time at my room, most of it anyway.
My room and little room.
We didn't have a lot of time here because of the dog.
Kind of crowds.
I was like, fuck this.
I'm like, hang on here.
It's like, I'm trapped.
Just know you're a escape route, so he eats this area.
I think an ideal cat space, man.
You're like, um...
little interconnecting tombs.
Between tight corners now.
Imagine like little pockets for cats to crawl through.
Little fence.
The fence, the more like a...
natural air flow.
Cats can just make use of the space.
You can have a net on the exterior of the fence.
There's nothing else that gets in, but just...
you know, filled it air pretty much.
With the reason.
It's not bad air.
It's just like you need that.
The front is from getting clogged up by anything.
It's very difficult not to think best about this.
All right.
So, cat tunnels.
With the fence and the outside.
No pressure.
No fence.
Just tunnels.
Cats are getting best control, but they also need freedom.
If you can't have too many cats otherwise there's no way to stabilize the population of...
Let's say the ecosystem is normalized.
Let's say there's a natural amount of...
there's a mathematically correct amount of cats and birds that have been introduced.
Cats, birds, mice, insects.
These smaller mammals, you know, we didn't abandon Earth entirely.
We took a lot of it with us.
That includes plants and animals.
We sought to preserve some as much of our nature.
Cats did what those dogs did with us.
But then we got you off your mess.
Just how they are.
They found a way to survive.
They found a way to persist on these massive carnivoreships.
I've never seen such wild animals in their life.
That's the Sloth and the little Black Manchester River in the future.
I'm not even if we don't know about this end so I don't know.
This can be scary.
Yes, me too.


====== REC025.txt ======
So imagine ecosystems, you know, in the solar mongrel, right, and there's humans that are
abundant, humans are still dominant, relatively speaking, but plant life has not been
quelled, it's been embraced. Humans have kind of found their place within a smaller ecosystem
that makes sense, and there's like a, if humans are dominant, size wise, and we love the
critters that are beneath, we love the critters that make Earth what it is beneath that
fucking stupid. They are equals, my cat is my child, he's my little boy, he's my, I want
to care for him the same way, I don't want to care for anyone, I don't want to care for
the child, he's my little buddy, he's my cazulu, he's my cazulu, he's my cat, he's cat, he's
not my cat, he is cat, cadulu, cadulu, cadulu, cadulu, cadulu.


====== REC026.txt ======
Imagine this smaller ecosystem. That means like, um...
Okay, try and scratch. Imagine this ecosystem where you have humans.
Not dominant, per se, but most persistent, most abundant.
Humanity is thriving here. And art, science, and philosophy.
And in these close-knit communal spaces,
there's room to explore, there's room to grow.
People are close-knit if they are.
Next to no crimes in this Mesopotamian society.
That's to say, there doesn't mean there aren't any crimes. It's just...
The majority of people are comfortable in this space. The majority of people are...
close with another.
And on occasion, people will break off, people isolate themselves intentionally,
and let us lead the divides.
But if people maintain the equilibrium of people maintain the equilibrium of their internal time,
there are close-knit times where the close friends look small group of people.
And then the heavy community time.
There's three places.
And then from there, from that point forward,
from those spaces that are visualized, because this is so abstract.
You have these villages, towns, not cities.
There's no cars, there's public transportation that's not densely populated transportation.
It's calculated to be just no space for the people who live there in the area.
You get to choose where you live.
There's lots of lots of places for renovation and...
There are places to build, because it's an endless vertical structure.
And they want to explore a small sector.
They want to...
build a small percentage of the interior space between these rings, these cones.
You have your social cone, you have your industry cone, and then you have your aerospace cone.
The community cone is being the most abundant.
The industrial cones, you know, research development, large projects.
That's moderately... there's a moderate amount of them.
And then the aerospace is at the top of this cone.
There's this vertical structure that's at least together.
That's visualized hopefully.
And it curves up against the atmosphere of the sky.
Too many able optimal trajectory.
Not for any other reason.
But until they realize that the moon above them will encapsulate the world.
You can see that the moon above the sky is at the top of the sky.
And the moon above the sky is at the top of the sky.
And the moon above the sky is at the top of the sky.
And the moon above the sky is at the top of the sky.

