Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.6
Creation-Date: 2024-09-24T20:02:39-07:00

====== reproductive-freedom-economic-update ======
think that the
abortion decision by these unelected right wingers is trying to push women back into a fascist,
back not really back into a fascist family because it used to be that as long as you were white
and in a family headed by a male, if you got married, you would be supported
for all your domestic emotional and social labor. So that's what I think is their agenda.
Sorry, Liam. Yeah, no, it's all good. So is it, is it very much of the deliberate decision about
population numbers and that essentially we need more people to be the workers, be the soldiers
and the abortion laws get in the way of that end? Yes, but I also think that it's a way of
juicing a movement that America used to go be great. And if we re-enact the restrictions that
we're used to have, it will again be great if we just re-institute Jim Crow and discriminate
against black people and keep women in their inferior place, then America will be great again.
And they don't want a face that the American century is over. Am I right in thinking that
Roe versus Wade had problems to begin with because it was based on not really on women's rights,
but more on privacy, is that correct? Yeah, I mean, the thing about, the thing about Roe is that
it was very much a compromise with what the movement wanted. The movement wanted free abortion
on demand. So the free part becomes much more important as medical costs rise, but it was
always important because abortions, you know, initially costed when they were first legal in
New York, costed $200. So that wasn't easily available to pretty much anybody.
Now, briefly, the Medicaid did cover abortions nationally from 1973 to 1976. And a lot of people,
a lot of people availed themselves of that 300,000 abortions a year. So a lot of people
needed abortions that they were getting at that point. And that was stopped under Carter.
Carter signed the high amendment initially. It was an issue in the election. Ford
staked out of position against it. Carter was for it. And this basically banned any federal
funding for abortions. So that meant that we really had no right to abortion. We really had the
right to go out into the private market and attempt to purchase one. Yeah. So that and you
can see like the contrast with Argentina, which just won legalized abortion abortion in 2020, right?
Their law says that within 10 days of your requesting an abortion, the health system has to
provide it to you. Like, you know, that's sort of the opposite of ours where you have to have
a waiting period, right? So and the movement wanted it to be five days. They didn't win that,
but they wanted in 10 days. So that sort of shows what an abortion right would actually look like
if we had had won it in the US. But we never really won the right. What we won was the ability for
the states were basically prohibited from from putting in certain certain restrictions.
And then as the Supreme Court decisions have piled up, they've allowed more and more restrictions
to the point where there are so many restrictions in some of the states, even before the
DOBS decision, it was very difficult for a lot of people to get abortions. And so I think when
we look at this, we should say, well, we don't want to go back to 2021 on abortion law. We really
want to go forward and make it a national right through a national health care system, a Medicare
for all, whatever you want to call it, where everybody has the right to all the health care they
did. That is really how we can get reproductive rights in reality, including contraception,
which is also quite expensive. Yeah, that's very important. Because I think what you had in Argentina,
with where they won abortion in spite of the Pope making an in-person visit to his birthplace to try
to get them to vote against abortion, is they had that kind of unity of indigenous movement,
the socialist movement, the feminist movement, the black rights movement, the climate movement,
all supporting them. And I think in 1973, we had a de facto coalition because the riots were
happening starting in 1968. They also had a very unpopular war in Vietnam that people were
demonstrating against. And they really couldn't afford to have millions of women out there demanding
the right to abortion as well and being dissatisfied. So I think they felt they had to give.
And I don't think they feel that now because there isn't a unity on the left,
even de facto, the way they used to be, and the way they have been sorry.
Yeah, the other factor there is, of course, you had the entire socialist world with abortion legal
and free in government hospitals, right? You could go and get it, including Poland, where it's
now completely illegal. So people could go behind the eye and curtain for freedom, right? So that
that was really embarrassing and just added to the pressure on the US government to do something.
Meanwhile, we had whole wards of people with botched abortions, dying or terribly injured,
you know, whereas you could get a free legal abortion in hospital in Moscow.
Yeah, that's true. That competition made them give a lot more than they would have.
And I think that if we are to win these rights back, we have to make a coalition of all people
who are deprived of their rights, which is an awful lot of people in the United States,
including the climate movement being deprived of the right to live.
But that would have to happen on the left, the way it did in Chile and in Argentina and also in
Colombia, that from South America. Sorry, Harry, I just want to pick up on that sort of the observation
you made just then and in the book, this idea that there's a difference in sort of birth rate
between capitalist nations and previously socialist nations and how they changed over time.
I don't know if you could talk about that a bit because yeah.
Yeah, so what I observed is that with a couple of exceptions,
so all the socialist countries made abortion legal shortly after they won.
This was Turin Vietnam, it was Turin Korea, it was Turin Cuba.
Russia, yeah.
Yeah, so Union was the first.
And so you have to ask, okay, why was that? Well, first of all, they believed in equality.
In the Soviet Union, certainly, there was a lot of laws passed for women to have equality.
But they also believed that women had contributions to make other than just as mothers, right?
So they tried to make it easier for people to have babies and put a lot of resources into
maternity care and crushes and laundries and cafeterias to get the housework out of the home
and basically lighten the burden on people so that they could do other things, right?
And in Vietnam, you also see that they had this plan, which was to lighten the burdens
on women workers so that they could do other things than just raise kids.
And one of the parts of that was to give them control over reproduction.
So that was an ideological thing.
But then the other thing, and you see it in China, right?
Which has gone from, which went from a position of having a one-child policy to slowly
loosening that to a two-child policy. And now, they're really actually in trying to encourage
births. The one-child policy came in as part of the dump-shopping reforms in 1979.
And what they, what their stated reason for it was, and by the way, it was one child,
if you were urban, if it was two children, if you were rural, and if you were a national minority,
you could have three children because those were oppressed groups.
They brought it in because they felt that the gains that they were making from development
were basically getting spread out too much among this burgeoning population that they had.
And they wanted to consolidate those gains of development and basically have each person
have more stuff, right? So that's only a situation that you can have in a socialist country where
they're actually sharing stuff out, right? So that was the stated reason for the policy.
And as capitalism has been restored, and more and more of China has basically become capitalist,
they have realized that they need to feed the needs of these corporations for workers.
And so that's why they have loosened these policies.
And also you see this in Russia. So in the Soviet Union, abortion was made legal between
1921 and 1936. In 1936, abortion was outlawed under Stalin's changes because they were afraid.
You know, here was Hitler saying he was going to annex parts of Russia.
In my comp, he talks about how he's going to annex parts of Russia.
And they were under attack from every European country basically sent troops and the US and troops
into the Soviet Union tried to overthrow the government. So for military reasons, they got rid of
that. Then in 54, they restored it in the postwar period. They restored abortion rights.
And basically had full abortion rights up until the overthrow of communism.
Now after that, they started to work. There was an incredible drop in the birth rate because
living conditions got so bad when the looting of the state happened and basically the oligarchs
took over. And living conditions were so terrible. The death rate went up drastically and the
birth rate went down drastically. And so now it has become a theme of the Russian state to try
to raise the birth rate. And every year Vladimir Putin gives speeches about how we have to raise
the birth rate. And they have also put enormous amounts of money into cash support for mothers.
So that's their preferred way of doing it. And that's raised the birth rate slightly.
But you can see that now they're now they're very concerned about the birth rate. Whereas during
the socialist period, it was not really an issue. All that postwar period, you know, it was the
birth rate. It was around 2.1 round replacement. Nobody was freaking out that there weren't enough
people. Oh, man, the factory is nobody was free. It was it was not an issue. Whereas in the US,
when we have a around replacement or below replacement birth rate, or in China with capitalism
restored, they're very worried about that. So I think that's it now there are cases of horrible
reproductive coercion and, you know, Romanian orphanages and all this stuff. But but for the most
part in socialist countries, they have a much better record on the on first of all, on contraception
and reproductive reproductive rights in general, partly because they're willing to go up against
the church. But but also, but also there's not this massive need to to create profit opportunities
through the growth of the system in general, which has relied primarily on population growth
since the inception of the system. Populations have been growing. So that's I think that's an
interesting contrast to make and to say, okay, what is it about capitalism that it that requires us
to have births at baby boom rates in order for the system to continue and to not stagnate? So
that's a question that that we should be asking. Well, I also think that right now, what's happening
is that they have exported a lot of the good jobs overseas. And we've gone from a manufacturing
economy to a service economy. And women and men's wages have more have become more equal,
not because men's wages improved, but they stagnated. And so women now make 82% on average
of what men make, but people are rejecting shit jobs now. 20 million people dropped out of
the labor force during the pandemic, because they were being exploited, underpaid, and told they
were essential. And the contradiction was just too much. And so I think what's happening is
also they kicked out the immigrants who used to wash dishes for almost nothing in an
oppressive environment. So between getting rid of the immigrants who took the shit jobs and were
underpaid and people refusing the shit jobs where they were underpaid and a massive unionization
across the United States, unlike anything that was seen before except in the 30s, they're getting
nervous. And they want to have a lot of cheap shit labor. And these neglected unwanted children
with inadequate upbringings would be the dishwashers of tomorrow without allowing immigrants to come in.
And the low page clickers in the grocery stores and so on. So I think they want to replenish
the bottom of the labor force that they don't allow in because of immigrants. And because they
underpaid people so terribly and told them they were essential, people are refusing.
In all these examples of control, historic and present, I think one of the things that
one of the stats that was really interesting in your book was that 25 to 30 percent of women are
going to need abortions, whether it's legal or illegal. So these forms of social control,
it's questionable how much they sort of quote-unquote work for their particular ends, given that
you know, it's very similar to the drug policy stuff when we spoke to
the Karl Eric Fisher, was that his name? When he was talking about when he tried ban
substances, all it does is it just drives it underground. Like there's still just the same amount
of demand for stuff. So there's a sort of lunacy to the trying to control everyone, right?
It's interesting because I was just reading this American Enterprise Institute report from
2018, which is all about the declining fertility, right? So this is a railing think tank that has
been promoting capitalist interest. And the report, first of all, it has empty bassinets on the front
cover, right? So it's by this guy named Lyman Stone, and he mournfully says, well, you know,
even really strict laws making abortion and contraception illegal are probably not going to
raise the birth rate by more than about 5 percent. What we really need is to sort of change the
culture. And he points to the former Soviet state of Georgia as an example, where, you know,
the head of the church there has said you must have children, and you know, they have all this,
you know, basically there's a lot of propaganda around it that, you know, your role is to have
what not. So we could see some of these bands and the crackdown on contraception as, which is also
another aspect of this, and we're going to see more of that if the Supreme Court decision is
any indication. But I mean, even under Trump, like half of the Title 10 family planning visits
evaporated, like those policies really made it hard to get contraception. So when you, when you
ban contraception and abortion, it may not raise the birth rate much, but this, this sort of culture
of disapproving of abortion, disapproving of contraception, trying to get people to think of, to
identify themselves somewhat as Harry was saying, you know, with, with their, their ability to produce
children and the family and sort of enclosing, getting rid of, of other options for women and
enclosing them back into the family to make that basically the only option that you have. I think
very much is on their agenda and they're hoping, you know, through a combination of making these
things illegal and disapproving of them and all this religious propaganda and all and, and other
propaganda, this particular American Enterprise Institute guy Lyman Stone is big into a, his big
thing is promoting marriage, how great marriage is. And this is part of his idea of like, if, if
people get married, then they'll have kids, which I think he's got the causation wrong at, you know,
people get married because they're planning on having kids. But, um, but, you know, there's definitely
a correlation and he thinks if we can just force and discriminate against women enough to make the
family the, the best option for them, then maybe we can force them into raising the birth rate and
pat Buchanan, you know, former Nixon speechwriter and various, like, right wing presidential candidate
at various points, who claims to be responsible for, for, as he says, running the sword through
child care under the Nixon administration. His whole thing is, you know, that we have to
discriminate against women more vigorously and so that, you know, he believes that the equal pay
was, um, you know, a siege gun against, against the West, he talks about this, he also calls the,
he also calls contraception, the suicide tablet of the West, right? So, so it's very much, he's very
much into this racist replacement theory, um, stuff. But, but his idea is if you bring back discrimination
against women and jobs, then they will be forced back into dependence on husbands who will then
have power over them and then they will go, what Harry, it was saying, it forced you back into
the family and that is, that will be the only way that you can fulfill yourself as through having
kids. So, uh, you know, I, I think it's part, I think the, the, uh, banning abortion and contraception
while they might not immediately have, uh, effects on the birth rate, although I have to say that
banning contraception in, uh, in parts of Texas where, uh, in 2011, there were, there was, uh,
massive cuts in contraception funding and they, and there, there was a whole area where there were
no, no clinics anymore. Birth, the births raised were, the birth rate went up 27%. So it may be that
they can actually force this abortion, not so effective as we can see from, for example,
Poland, which still has one of the world's lowest birth rates despite, um, despite having banned
abortion. But when you, when you get rid of access to contraception, that can be, I think, a little
more effective than even this American enterprise institute guy thought. But at the same time,
it's, it's part of a whole plan of, of enclosing people back and forcing the expenses of, uh,
of having kids back into the family and back onto our strained wages. That's, that's kind of the
agenda for, um, you know, it's not just a high birth rate agenda, but it's also who's going to
pay for it in agenda and the agenda around that is that, is that any expenses have to be born
by the family out of our paycheck. It's not going to be guaranteed. It's not going to be paid
publicly. Yeah, one of the problems with that, though, is they've wanted to push women back into
the situation of the 50s without pushing back the conditions of existence of that family,
which were a family wage for the white male. And so that's, they could have the fascist family,
where they have women forced to work and also forced to subordinate themselves to their husbands.
But then they're so exhausted, they can't have children, which is what happened in Nazi Germany.
The birth rate didn't go up as planned because women couldn't conceive it. They were too wiped out.
Yeah, I mean, the crisis, they're, you know, they're facing this crisis on all these different levels.
And they, you know, basically the idea of the family wage, which, which is sexist in the, in all
the ways that we just described, but at least it meant that corporations were providing some
resources for raising a family, right? But now we are, we are completely on our own,
where both parents are working. They're getting 80 or more hours a week out of a couple.
And there's, there's no resources for raising the kids. There's no, the family, the family job,
which used to be paid by the man's foot, you know, in the ideal, like, good union job situation,
where, where the man's wage paid for the kids and for a spouse to do all the care work.
We don't have that anymore, right? So, so that's created the crisis within the family.
And then that result, what has resulted is people are just having fewer kids. I mean, in my group,
people were saying, well, you know, I wanted to, but I just decided to stop at one. I can't,
it's, it's too much. I can't do it with the time, the expense, the childcare expenses, the
lack of reliable healthcare, no time off at work. I mean, it's just too much. So, and then many people
are deciding not to have any kids. So that's kind of the, the, where the struggle is, is expressing
itself is in this low birth rate, which we're calling, in my group, we call it a spontaneous birth
strike using, using an early 20th century term that Emma Goldman used, spontaneous birth strike
that, but we are all blaming ourselves. We don't see it as the political thing. And we think it's
important for us to see it as a political thing and not just think of it as our own personal
failings to make it work. I think that's completely right. Because the biggest development
among married people now is married people, no children. Because they're too expensive. And because
everybody gets divorced, really it's more than 50% because 50% are formally divorced.
But then another 20% at least are people who have no kids and no
valuable possessions enough to fight over it. So they just split. So you have about 70% of people
splitting in a marriage. And people, women don't want to be left with the kids. And so
they're the ones refusing marriage now, particularly among blue collar women. That's why 42%
of kids are born outside of a marriage. Whereas in the 50s, it was about 15%.
It's huge. And it's an economic issue as well as a social one. And the only way I think
they could pull off getting women back is to have a fascist family like they had in Nazi Germany.
And even that didn't increase the birth rate because women were wiped out from all the jobs they
had to do. Well, I think it's really interesting as well what you're saying about this particular
right wing think tank. And that they have to change the culture that there has to be propaganda.
I think one of the things that came out from reading the book is just how much the
initial sort of women's liberation movement, their demands, how relevant
that the sort of seven initial demands are still. Yeah, right. And particularly the last
one was about the workers control the profits. That's another sort of rabbit hole to go down.
But the thing that is fascinating is like, you know, you very much outline in your book
things that worked and things that work in terms of changing laws in terms of pushing
for a society where abortion is, you know, legal and free and easy, right. And that these
certain things that work are just conversations being actually being able to talk to each other.
And like exactly like you said, people are sort of when they're just having the one kid or whatever
they're just sort of seeing it as a personal failure or something opposed to sort of systemic
like a social issue. And on this, I think we should talk about all these things that work to push
to sort of push back and, you know, sort of create the world you actually want to live in.
But sort of one of the most fascinating things is all the things that don't fit neatly
into the right wing's position, right. The one that blew my mind was seven out of ten
women that get abortions or already mothers. Yes, yeah.
So that, I don't know. It sounds like both both Harriet and Equal, you knew that like maybe I'm
just being a sort of stupid British person over here. But like, is that a known thing in America?
Oh, I think that's a very surprised. I think it's a worldwide, I mean, statistic in general
that it's not just an American statistic, if I recall.
Well, I think that even Margaret Sanger, as you cited, Jenny, was a appeal to by these women
who had more children than they could possibly handle. I mean, the right thing here likes to say,
likes to sort of demonize anyone who wants an abortion. But
and I think I make, quote, in the book this, this mom who went to get an abortion and she thought
she was like some terrible Medea-like person for wanting to get an abortion even though she
already had a kid. And then she was astonished to read that most people who had abortions in the US,
and I guess Equal, he says worldwide, are people who have kids. So it's part of the propaganda
that, oh, it's just, you know, these careless teenagers or whatever that are getting abortions.
Clearly, clearly, it's all kinds of people getting abortions.
Well, I would say that the things that worked for, that we should bring into the current situation
in the 60s are what Harriet was talking about, this general uprising was very effective in
winning a lot of things because the power structure was frantically trying to peel off different
segments of the movement and sort of neutralize them. So, for example, we got the occupational
safety and health act partly because the because the Nixon administration wanted to
appeal to workers in a way that it was losing its chance to appeal to workers.
We, you know, we got abortion, probably they were trying to try to get women to calm down
and various other things. So definitely a broad left movement with all of these demands in it
is, was one of the ways that we want. Another way we want is, and this was very clear in the
situation with the referendum in Ireland in 2017. So they had bumped along with a sort of a reform,
abortion reform movement for decades and, and basically the content of it was trying to
create a few exceptions to the, the ban on abortion in Ireland. And one of the things was,
well, would you have, would you have two shrinks sign off on the person with suicidal or could you
just have one shrinks sign off on whether, well, all of these debates about like, well, if it was
rape, could do, would you have to prove it was rape, blah, blah, blah. All of that, we had the same
problem in the US. We had a small reform movement that went along and tried to change these,
changed the laws with these little exceptions. But it didn't appeal to the general public because
most people didn't think they were going to be in that kind of a situation. Very, you know,
and it wouldn't help most people who needed abortions. So, so it was when the women's liberation
movement raised the demand for free abortion on demand where people saw, oh, wow, I could get this.
It would be free. This is what I need. Um, that galvanized an enormous uprising on the issue. Same
thing happened in Ireland when they went from these small demands to a demand, a group of, um,
anarcho feminists in Dublin came up with this, this idea of, uh, free safe legal as the,
as the demand. And we're able to lead the movement into that into talking about abortion.
They named their campaign the abortion rights campaign. They were told, don't use the word abortion
that'll turn people off. They said, no, we have to talk about what we want. And they were able to,
and they won overwhelmingly. They were very surprised. They thought it was going to be extremely close.
They won by 66% of the vote, um, after a huge campaign in which they did a lot of door to door
canvassing. And I think this is important to getting people to talk about abortion in more than
just this very surface sort of, um, a moralistic way and really think about the issues. And,
and of course, think about all of the people and learn all the people in their lives that have
had abortions, um, that was able to happen in Ireland because of all this canvassing because it was
on the ballot. And we're going to have the opportunity to do that in various states where abortion
is going to be on the ballot. So, for example, in Michigan, they're putting it on the ballot.
Um, in Kentucky, there's going to be a referendum that is actually anti-abortion, but it's the same
conversation right vote against this referendum around abortion in Michigan. So there are going to
be all these opportunities to really have deep conversations about what is this about. And I think
we also need to include like what is this about in terms of having control of our reproduction when
reproductive working conditions are so bad. Um, but that was I think that is very effective. And I
noticed that when you look at the polling around abortion in the 90s, there's a big leap in support
for abortion rights. And the 90s were when we really went back to doing a lot of mass mobilization
around abortion. So it's really effective. Um, and getting people to think about it in ways that
they had not thought about it. You think, oh, there's all this abortion rhetoric. Everybody knows
everything they've heard everything about abortion, but it's not really true. They haven't really
thought about it in their own sort of context. And, and it so that that's important. The other part
that was incredibly important was the speakouts, people talking about their legal abortions,
getting up women, whole panels of women saying we had legal abortions on her sister, Rose, was one
of the first people to testify about this. So like actually talking about the illegal abortions and
and and this contradicts everything that we hear in the current sort of liberal version of this
where, oh, abortion is a very private and personal decision. It's between you and your doctor.
You shouldn't talk about it in public. You shouldn't be forced to testify about it. Well,
obviously people shouldn't force to testify about it. But it's very important that we do testify
about it and do talk about it. And that will make it safer for other people to talk about it. And
eventually it will become just this commonplace thing, right? If if we're scared to and if we're
shamed and to not talking about it as we are by both liberals and conservatives in this in this
situation, we will still end up with everybody thinking it's something shameful. It's something
secret or private. And instead, what we said is the personal is political. We have to make this
public. We have to talk about it. And I have to say shout your abortion. I have to give a lot
of kudos to this was basically a hashed a couple of women who's testified about their abortions
in the main game. This hashtag that went viral blew up and and thousands and thousands of women
testified about their abortions. And so that kind of thing we need to do more of that to give
people who are viewing shame the the sense that oh no, this is not something that I should have
to keep secret. That's right. That's huge. I also think that you know, one of the things that's
in our favor these days and that the Supreme Court is reacting against as it's progressive is
that religion is much less popular than it has ever been particularly among young people.
And the kind of misogyny that evangelical religions espouse like the southern
Baptist conference on men and women. And they are the largest Protestant
denomination says that women should be subordinate to men. Men should be protective of women.
Women should be subordinate. They should never be your boss or anything like that if you're a man.
And yet probably because they're always caught literally with their pants down over and over again.
Jerry fall well liking to watch his wife have sex with the pool boy and investing in the pool boys
gay club and the guy from Liberty University,
board of trustees who died with a dildo up his ass and a rubber suit, which didn't look good
for the church. Well, you know, their expose as perverts hasn't helped and their numbers are
dwindling and so the Catholic Church is it with the expose starting in the year 2000 and increasing
and increasing even in South America of their sexual predations against children.
And I think that the the moral. This was this was very important in the Irish case because they
just they had exposed both the sexual abuse of children and the Magdalene laundries where
where and then also this horrible operation that they forced on people where they basically
break your pelvis in order to allow the baby through right instead of a cesarean. So all of that
really dis made made the church and and they had also just won a marriage equality referendum.
So that gave people hope. So at very much like church, people may still, you know, have beliefs
and religion, but they were very anti clerical at that point. So that that's a that was a very
important thing. And I think that's got to it's got to have been true as well to some extent
in Argentina. Oh, yes. Yeah. But I think also that there's a there's a great bit in your book
for it. There's a it's not a testimonial as such, but it was somebody talking about working
in an abortion clinic and that they were fully aware that there were Catholics going in there
for abortions and that they there was this sort of ex they saw themselves as the exception to
the rule like that. You know, they were doing the responsible thing or something like that. And
that it's worse than that. The actual picketers that were picketing the clinic would would bring
in their daughters to another clinic across town to get abortions or or anti abortion women who
were actually active in the movement would come and get their own abortions and they always thought,
oh, well, they were the exception and all of these other people were terrible and they but they
had real reasons to have an abortion. And and the the you know, the clinic staff would say,
no, you're you're you have exactly the same reasons that all these other people do.
Right. I mean, that's a very common that's a very, very common thing. You know, I mean, I
when I was in school in Orange County, which is, you know, very conservative
county in in Southern California right between LA and San Diego, but, you know, I used to be very
active with doing like sex ed and, you know, abortion right to what not on campus. And, you know,
I would, you know, often have, you know, the some of the members of the, you know, the anti-abortion
groups sometimes take me aside doing like, hey, can you give me information for a friend?
Right. Always for a friend. You know, it's that, you know, for a friend or, you know, one of them,
you know, was honest and was just like, you know, I mean, a, you know, kind of a bad situation.
You know, and I would always provide them information, you know, and and and be like, hey, like, you
know, I hope this changes your your position on this issue because, you know, same thing. Everyone
is, you know, like you, you know, people have abortions because they're protecting their future,
they're protecting, you know, your family, their family, their life. I mean, you know, various,
various reasons, right? There's a great quote in the book, having an abortion made me happy.
I was not forced, I was not forced to become a mother. And and and the idea of testimonials being
really sort of powerful, people sharing those stories, people sharing stories like the, you know,
working in abortion clinic and seeing these people come in. And then also, you know, statements
like that. I've never heard that in an abortion debate. But then, you know, I'm, it's not
surprising. I'm, you know, a dude in Britain and I sort of not fully glued up really until reading
this book. But I was like, wow, like immediately there's some part of my brain that was like, okay,
that's got to be the title of the trailer or the episode because that would just make everyone
really mad. Well, I mean, that was one of the major, you know, one of the major aspects of
abstinence only sex said, I think in terms of, you know, when you're talking about the culture of
being able to discuss these things, you know, did I think really set back an entire generation?
Yes, it did, but only among the really religious and I think no, no, no, no, not at all, not at all.
I absolutely disagree with that. So, so hang on. So what was the point?
The abstinence only sex education that was in schools.
Right. And that's basically shames people, right?
Well, it doesn't only shame people. I mean, like, you know, the gay men who's used,
for the longest time has been a really strong supporter of reproductive rights, you know,
back in the 80s and 90s and, you know, early odds, like when I was very active in the issue,
was like very, very common to see like many gay men into to the state, the older gay men are,
but a lot of the younger gay men are because they've been subjected to abstinence only sex said at
schools. And yet they're not abstinent. And I have read that in the schools where they teach
abstinence only, there's a much higher teen pregnancy rate. There is, there is, but there is a
nix, there is a, you know, so absolutely. It has nothing to do with abstinence. I'm just saying,
it creates a, you know, if you're going to talk about the culture of, you know, it created a lot
of shame about abortion, about birth control, about people, you know, also not knowing any basics
about their bodies. And I mean, it's, yeah, it's, it's, it's kind of hard to sometimes, you know,
like you, you have to do a lot of explaining and informing when, because it's, it's really common
when I talk to people that they don't understand the difference between a birth control pill,
a morning after pill, and then abortion pill. Right. And they need to know. But I think,
and this is even, even the New York Times gets this wrong. I have to say from watching
the discussions of the morning after pill and the abortion pill, they, I mean, even journalists
are, are guilty of this. Right. Right. Which is, you know, it's not that, it's, I, you know,
it's not that difficult of, of, they're, they're very, they're, you know, I mean, the birth
control pill and the morning after pill are somewhat like more closely related together in terms
of actual pharmaceutical products. Right. But yeah, it's, it's kind, you know, there has been a huge
gap of, you know, over 10 years, because abstinence only sex education still happens,
you know, pretty regularly in public schools. But, you know, of just being able to, you know,
let me, none of these programs ever mentioned abortion at all. There's only 17 states in the United
States that have biologically correct sex education. So we're really talking about a desert here.
But I think a very important thing is the invocation of religion. And the Supreme Court
passed three pro-religion rules also, parochial schools now get public money. And people can pray
that football coach can pray on the football field and so on. And that it's not, it was not illegal
to have a Christian flag outside of the state house in Boston that they are trying to push
religion, which also pushes shame on women. And, you know, the only really good woman in Christ,
in Catholicism is the Virgin Mary who never had sex. And so, you know, women, that's so much for
women's sexuality. And women are constantly being humiliated and punished for their sexuality
in the Bible and the Quran. And so, by pushing religion, you push shame on women. However,
as these organized formal religions fade among young people, religion too is losing its
clout. And I think they're panicked about that and want to re-invoke religion to teach women
to be ashamed and responsible for men's transgressions as they were in Genesis,
and have their husbands rule over them as it says in Genesis. So, there is a whole right wing
movement here. Oh, absolutely. Yeah. And that goes to kind of what the American Enterprise
Institute guy was talking about is like, we have to somehow create a world in which people think
this is what they should be doing, having kids, being in a family, having large families.
Since we don't have the economic support for that, you know, they're having to
gin that up pretty far in order to make any difference. But that is definitely the thing.
And, you know, it's interesting because there were thousands and thousands of clergy
in the late 60s, starting in 1967, there was the clergy consultation service for abortion,
which did abortion referrals to illegal, you know, basically all abortion was illegal at that point.
So, to doctors, to doctors, they referred across state lines hoping that would keep the
prosecutions down. And it did help a little bit. But basically, they relied on these doctors
who were willing to risk their practices providing abortions. But they were in almost every state,
they were doing counseling and basically a referral service. And this was all, you know,
progressive clergy and rabbis and just a bunch of clergy. And where are they right now? Where
is the pro-choice religious community? I'm sure they're out there, you know, making a lot of noise,
making a lot of noise. But we need to encourage that because, you know, that's the answer to this,
right? That's part of the answer. Totally. Yeah, exactly. So, and they were very brave about it.
And I think that needs to, that whole idea of a clergy consultation service for abortion
could be, could be gotten back up again, because if you're in a legal state, you're going to need
help getting to a legal state to get abortion. And, and why not have a clergy consultation
service? Yeah. Well, they have, now they do have other sources plus transportation and payment
for your abortion across state lines, but it doesn't have the religious power behind it. However,
I do say people might not know how to get to it, right? So there have to be a lot of,
there have to be a lot of different angles so that this is really available to the maximum number
of people. And I mean, this is, it's going to be an information war in many ways is to get,
not to mention the price, right? And some people can't leave, you know, to fly to New York.
They have kids. They have to figure out like child care. They might not trust the, the people that
they're, you know, they might not have a trustworthy person to give child care. They, you know,
it's like all kinds of stuff that you have to arrange in order to just pick up and leave. And so,
so the other thing that's different from the 60s is the availability of abortion pills. So,
aid access, which is based in Austria will do consultations with you by email text and phone.
And then they will send you the pills from India. They send them into all, all states in the US.
It doesn't matter what the laws are. So if people are interested, they should go to aidaccess.org
to find out they're also doing advanced provisions so that you could have the pills to give to friends
if they need them. And then planseapills.org does trainings for ambassadors of information on
the abortion pill, what's available, how you can get it, the cheapest options and the most reliable,
planseapills.org. I highly recommend them. They're very organized. And they actually do have a
scorecard of various places. You can get the pills, how fast will it be, what's the expense and all
of that. So, so there are a lot more options and a lot lower barriers to entry than there were
in the 60s for actually providing abortion services. In the 60s, you actually had to know how to
do a procedural abortion in order to provide that. Now we have all these other options. And I should
mention that the second pill in the abortion pill combination, Ms. Aprostol, is also
effective on its own, it's much 85% effective and it's much cheaper. It sells under the
under the brand name Cytatec. It's often prescribed for to protect your stomach if you're taking
non-steroidal anti-inflammatories and keep you from getting an ulcer from that. So, so we have
and that pill is available. It's over the counter in in Mexico and it's available in flea markets in
Texas and whatnot. So, so there are a lot of options that we have right now that we never had
in the previous period, which which make it even less likely that they're actually going to be
successful in raising the birth rate through this. They're just going to make a lot of people miserable.
And this conversation continues for another 30 minutes on our Patreon. So why not join us over
at patreon.com for slash it's not just in your head. Massive thank you as always to our VIP patrons.
Alex Placito, Bruce Rodgers Vaughn, Jennifer Cox, Justin Harper, Rebecca Johns, Shema Socono,
and Shina Belmus. If you have enjoyed anything you've heard Harriet say in this program, you will
definitely enjoy capitalism hits home, which is a solo program that Harriet does through
democracy at work, which is a worker-owned cooperative that produces other great programs such as
economic update with Richard Wolfe and the anti-capitalist chronicles with David Harvey. I can't
recommend enough that everyone also listen to capitalism hits home if you enjoy. It's not just
in your head. And you can hear more from Harriet on her radio show called interpersonal update.
It's on WBAI at 230 EST on Wednesday, afternoons, and in the WBAI archives.
