Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.6
Creation-Date: 2024-07-23T21:04:31-07:00

====== REC002.txt ======
The choice is like, I don't know what she's saying.
It's horrible, it's just like, to guess.
Oh, nice.
Damn.
If you're done, I know it's this kind of.
Oh, that one's kind of, yeah.
That one's kind of hard.
I know, yeah.
You feel the volume.
You just tap it quite tight and you nail it your mom.
It doesn't miss all school.
A little chipmunk.
Jeez.
I did a tiny little baby one.
Yeah, I love that shit.
It's kind of fun, we're turning around.
Oh, I know, it's an electric motor.
It's crazy.
But see, that's what nice little bow.
The bungees.
Nice one.
Oh, my bungees, man.
Whoa, that light is on fire, buddy.
No, no, that's fine.
It doesn't actually work unless you take the feature.
Oh, yeah, you're fine.
I look like, oh, you're just a little son of a fire.
This is what I have in my room.
This thing has a safety feature in the bottom.
It's a honeywel.
It doesn't.
It's an expensive bottle.
The baby loses connection with the ground wheel throwoff.
Just the same thing.
Yeah.
The best part of it is when you come to this car,
this shit.
Right.


====== REC003.txt ======
Alright, do you think I could convey this when I speak to you guys?
Okay.
Okay, so the game is not meant to be a combat game.
There's no combat name at all.
And in the game, I'm going to call it Dodeck.
D-O-D-E-C-Dodeck.
I wasn't like a Dodeckhedrin.
Right.
And on the 12 signs of this Dodeckhedrin are the
optimally conveyed even expressions.
The ones that are most accurately described to the behavior of someone instead of the
outward intent of someone, the abstract notion of some of the actions.
So imagine you have anger, right?
Yeah.
What is that attribute to you?
Attributed to, in say, for example, the Dodeck.
It's aggression, right?
And the behavior of a Dodeck, anxiety.
No, no, anxiety is the fear.
Fear is the external.
Yeah, yeah, it's like you have the aggression, you have the fear.
And you have the middle, and that's anxiety.
That's anxiety.
Anxiety leads to aggression or fear.
And fear, because it has these cultural notations, these cultural preconceptions about these
ideas are, and you can't accurately convey the idea that...
Fear is attributed to anxiety and aggression is attributed to anxiety.
So the zero contrast of for all your characters is going to be a difference.
So the matter of it's an animal, or a human, or whatever, it's going to have it to that
level of indifference, which is the bottom of the spectrum, right?
And then it's going to have...
Maybe it'll have its own meter of whatever, like, you know, playfulness, anger,
whatever, the depletion meter.
And once it has a certain depletion meter, then that character in the game,
dude, you can't affect the characters in one thing.
That's perfect.
Okay, yeah, yeah.
That's the best way to explain it.
It's like I was tied to a moot in the area, or running to another character,
or another animal.
And if an outcome will play from that maybe, maybe you'll have NPCs going on quests.
There you go.
You don't have, but see like that it makes it to where you don't have to really involve yourself with that
those characters.
It's a social behavior.
It's a social interaction.
It can become a whip.
So such as, like, in real life you can choose to interact with somebody or choose nothing.
Well, like in real life, all we do is like, oh, well, you know, you get a phone call.
Uh-oh, yeah, uh, so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so and so
and so and so and so and so and so and from this this the Winter Palsoo
Winter Palsoo
Winter Palsoo
Winter Palsoo
Winter Palsoo
Winter Palsoo
Winter Palsoo
Winter Palsoo
Winter Palsoo
Winter Pilloo
Winter Palsoo
Winter Palsoo
Winter Palsoo
Winter Pilloo
Winter Palsoo
Winter Pilloo
Winter Palsoo
Winter Palsoo
Winter Palsoo
Winter Palsoo
Winter Palsoo
Winter Palsoo
Winter Palsoo
Winter Palsoo
it's directly, it'll give your NPCs, it'll give your NPCs a choice.
Okay, so imagine, hypothetically.
So imagine hypothetically, you have the distance interaction.
Hey, what's up?
Hi, how are you doing?
There's your relatively trusted person.
You know, they're acquaintances.
Yeah, they're acquaintances, right?
And then you have the middle ground.
It's like, no, they're pretty good friends with them.
And you have the interperson.
They're really close relationships.
But then you have like an action that you're rating between the two.
You have like the friends.
And then the, you know, closer friends.
And then the friends you really bond with, interpersonally, and...
They're pretty much like family.
Oh, okay.
They're not just sexual.
Family would be above that.
No, okay.
The closer relationships and the friendships you make.
Is it gritty in between that two?
Oh, okay.
It's, human interactions are a, are done, and typically in games are like,
there is this and there is them.
There's us and there's them.
In reality, human interactions are more...
It should be a rating of interaction.
Because cars.
Because cars are introduced.
This sounds like a tangent.
But because cars are introduced.
Because the space which humans interact is, has grown, has widened.
We've reduced the amount of closeness and bonds and human interaction.
And trust.
Trust is as kind of evaporated from the interaction space.
And I think that if we can reduce that space, we can bring it closer together
without eliminating cars, eliminate the distance between people and improve.
Okay.
So, tangent.
Okay.
So imagine.
What's like on reality, everybody is pretty much lost themselves to their phones.
Well, okay.
First of all, you, this range from human interaction.
People don't really, people don't really communicate like they used to.
You know what I'm saying?
So your goal is, is you're trying to give your NPCs quests.
Is that what you're trying to do in your video game?
Your quest...
Make them mind on that quest?
Their interaction quests.
No, listen.
The whole thing is, when you play any game like Skyrim or any fucking thing,
they always play in games according to the social and tastytz 편s.
Why you need to pointAnimation?
You finish the quest and you get your fucking experience.
But if you give a character to an NPC, so you're no longer killing the people's,
because we get burned out on fetch quests.
I mean, the whole game is a pressing fetch quest a lot of times.
You know what I mean?
most complex that a quest will become is just get this or here's an item I'm
going to include an item in this quest yeah and they do whatever with the item or
check this person it becomes almost like what you're crossing into like FPS
territory you know too in a sense because because we turn it to a defensive
mission where you got to defend a certain set of NPCs from going into another
area you're interacting with them you're making connections but you're trying to
do that without it being an action game that's the whole thing because yeah it's
like an action game you're not a game where you're like shooting to keep monsters
away yeah social building it's a house you can go in and go in and
you know I mean that's how you implement the character
because you can turn that character you can turn that character into a rich
person to the game but like it you can actually do just a little bit of that
person you can like cause these two people to come into a relationship yeah see
like that I like because his game has no guns it's okay his game has no action
it's like a life is strange okay or until dawn kind of sure it's just all about
making decisions and then reading out dialogue yeah with random playthroughs
you know what would he call it a lot of the Japanese you've been human
interaction games are like that yeah that's to the still version of what he's
talking yeah but he's trying to make it to where it's more like you see your
character walking around you know doing stuff he's trying to make a better city
he don't want like countryside he wants like a really really inter-connected city
yeah so like say if you were in the first interactions you're in the city the
NPCs would be more deeper but the only way to make the NPCs badass deeper is
to walk and give them quests because it's a human interaction because like
that is to the act of curiosity human seems to explore the space like Dark Souls
but instead of combat use interpersonal interactions that means to convey
your intended exploration of the space well because there's a lot of
there's a lot of dialogue where you don't get to see what like things the
villain is doing oh yeah but if you play the game where like you can actually talk
to people who know the villain if you get to know the villain without before you
even meet them you don't judge them at the moment that you meet them in the
video game that's actually you see what I'm saying you can find out that he's
of this or then when you actually run into the villain it's like you don't have
to judge the villain like so quickly you know like way more to work no one is
you a better fucking villain so yeah interesting to this is that no one
individual believes their actions to be of malintent they believe their actions
to be justified within the internal motivation of that person they can't
proceed their actions to evil they believe it to be justified within their
mind unless they're broken or dismembered just for the fact that not one
person can be born like extremely good or extremely evil evil doesn't exist good
to not exist there is an interpersonal interaction but that is us to exist
yeah because that factor is like is the only thing they change is the rules you
know like that's how you define that's the defining line of whether I think
this kind of gamer becomes that kind of yeah yeah or being able to choose
besides you want to be so yeah there are sides but they're not quite
sides they're more the intent of individual convey in the space like
everyone believes themselves not to be evil but the opinion with it but no one
most people don't believe you're basic like care if you empathetic everyone
if you empathetic everyone in this space the most you know it's the chance to
bring shoes to make them because the most you get the more more personal
I'm more related when we get to imagine, so imagine, I'm going to pause real quick.


====== REC004.txt ======
So, imagine a space. You're in your room, you're in your house. You have this space to yourself and maybe to a spouse.
You expand the space to others and others feel the same. It's a wonder we can all be but the same.
It's a space that expands from the inner to the outer, the outer being others.
I got the perfect tree with this. It's just a bubble.
There's being each other. Each character is going to be a bubble. You're going to have a tree system but the bubbles are what touch.
So, the bubbles are touching. Each other bubble and they're all creating influence.
But then you can maybe put specs in there based on advertisements. Something that's going on or something that's being broadcasted.
Or interpersonal interactions that you can actually map out a giant tree and you can make a lot of content for the past.
And you can expand the space and add to it. You can expand. You can build slowly interpersonal interactions.
And expand the physical space that reacts to the results in levels.
You have vertical and horizontal directions.
Yeah, I thought it would be a good way to do something to throw in there.
People are going to be hungry. You got to make sure that you can constantly get content. It's not difficult to do so.
The dialogue is easier to convey content. It's easier to develop content than it is to expand the actual space.
So, if you focus on interpersonal interactions first, you can hope hypothetically fun content.
It pretty much opens the floodgates or whatever is possible.
You say you like short games. 3 hours long.
No, 3 hours long, 3 hours long. You jump into it and you're done for the evening.
That's me, to me, that's a good long chunk of plot story, not everything.
Hashtag.
And then they let you walk around.
I usually like to have long games.
Well, they, and then, but see like that, you can, because you got to get characters committed to the world.
See like red everydension. The online mode, it has like nothing. I mean, the other, the locale was saying.
But everything that happens in a fucking campaign does not really bleed over to the online.
Everybody got a piss cake. Everybody got a piss cake.


====== REC005.txt ======
I'm just...
This is bad.
Could you just try your best?
You'll be alright then.
Oh, I'm so sorry.
Wow, I'll be fine.
I'm sorry.
I don't believe you.
Oh, I'm sorry.
It's the hardest part of our job is, you know, like you...
Anything over 10 hours is going to...
Like affect your funeral sister's life.
Yeah.
So, like, when we're at work, we're just...
Our joints are just burning down all crazy, you know.
We're constantly just under...
Some type of physical stress, and then...
By the time our leaking comes, it's like...
You know, it takes...
For me, my body...
It takes like a day or two of sleepy...
Honestly, it's amazing pop.
And it's difficult.
See, it just pop, pop, pop, pop.
Everybody...
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I think it's because...
There's people that are over 50 working on this, you know.
Yeah.
And we all function somehow.
And it's amazing that they're pulling through...
Hell of a...
Hell of a...
Hell of a...
Yeah.
He's like speaking to it.
Yes.
Normally, I freaking sleep for like a day and a half.
I don't even get up.
A day and a half?
Normally, I just like write it off.
But what?
I've been working here for like almost three years now.
And I'm like...
You know...
I feel like I have to...
It sucks having a job where you've got to like...
Change your lifestyle.
Yeah.
It's like the perfect.
Exactly.
Because like, back then, I used to be able to drink like a fucking fish.
I can't.
I know.
Initially, you're just like...
Why bother feeling like that?
You know...
You can't recover better.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But I guess it's healthier kind of.
I guess in the sense it's kind of good for us.
You know, we're not so...
To be able to push yourself like that, yeah.
Well, no, it's just...
To be able to just like cut out seriously, you know.
For a certain amount of time instead of just constantly.
Otherwise, like...
You're not tired of everything.
You need to more stuff.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Yeah.
What's cool though is we get to pump music and everything.
Fucking music is life.
That's like everything.
So you get to play music, don't you?
Well, not that.
But we get to hear music all night.
We get to choose sometimes.
I got to play some of my stuff.
I don't know where the fuck out of people.
I don't know what I thought about people here.
It's not bad.
We're supposed to be rap.
Oh no, so I got the whole...
Everybody listens to rap over there.
One more.
That's just, you know, it's just everybody.
Yeah.
Putting out their choices.
It's pretty cool.
Our...
Our most enthusiastic person on...
She has a list and she usually gravitates between...
Blackout P's kind of stuff.
Oh.
And rap and techno.
I mean, I could handle a little bit of Blackout P's.
Yeah, I mean, it's cool.
It's like generalized.
I think, and I think really with techno,
like I used to be able to listen to it a lot more than my ex constantly played it.
And I'm just like, no.
I'm good now.
Right.
I mean, I suck my buddy.
He's not on his stuff tomorrow.
Or, like, the day after.
He's not everyone plays this music.
It's not everyone after, dude.
Uh, I don't know. I mean, I know that he does.
Because he is one of the working by train network in the CTA.
Like, years ago.
Oh wow.
And we became friends, actually, because he moved close by.
There's a crowd on the corner.
But, uh, well, I'll show you some stuff.
You want to hear some stuff?
Yeah.
Go for it.
I remember that. I told you about my friend when we played some music.
We're jamming up.
Basically, we have electric.
He takes bass, that bass, that bass.
He has a pedal.
It's like a, uh, it's like a little piece of equipment that will do drum rolls and pads.
Yeah.
And he has a loop.
So we're just using a loop to make one really fun.
Okay.
We're just inventing shit.
Okay.
We only did, like, three songs.
I kind of laughed because I was like, oh, no.
And I just, I just kind of got embarrassed myself.
But I did.
He's really good.
What?
He said, let's do a punk beat.
I was like, all right.
He's playing the bass.
I'm playing the rhythm.
And the lead.
He's playing the bass.
I'm playing the rhythm.
And the lead.
I'm playing the band at the end.
I'm playing the rhythm.
Oh, shit.
Oh, you could totally fucking do this.
Could you, could I, could I?
Yeah.
Hey.
Oh, could I give you percentage of this project?
If you could convey the music I need, uh,
Yeah.
Can't convey the space.
I think I'll be going to imagine that.
Imagine, imagine how we need to convey the song,
the overall instrumental piece,
the overall intellectual
what do you call it?
Articulation of the
imaginative space.
The overall feeling of this world.
The optimistic future of humanity.
Instead of the dystopia we see in modern fiction.
The dystopian society that we will ultimately embrace.
That's crazy.
No, but that's not how it's like this.
Yeah.
I don't know, like I just,
he made this bass line and I was like, I suppose.
He's listening to this bass line.
That's him playing bass.
It's not like fucking brainless, listen.
Can I jump in?
I don't know what to play.
Could we get the jump back in here?
I can show you something.
Okay.
I think I'm just playing bass.
I need that in here.
I'm shit.
This one playing guitar.
That's fucking awesome.
That's different.
And then we're going to do this.
You know, it's like, you've got to build up.
You've got to get more intense.
Yeah, some drums would be sounding good at the back of that.
Well, I like it.
That's awesome.
Yeah.
That's what we're doing in shit.
He's playing like for a long time.
He's longer than I had.
I'm not.
Okay, so how long have you played?
Imagine if that...
36 now.
Imagine adding a violin to this track.
That'd be tricky.
That'd be a fucking...
No.
He's 36.
36.
I got my hairs right here.
Stress can cause that.
Don't matter what it is.
So...
I thought he was like in a story, the first match I was in here.
I am 24.
24?
Yeah. How are you?
31.
Wow.
You know, I wouldn't have guessed that.
You guys were like 20.
I think I thought you guys were like late 20.
You know, I think the concept of age and social space kind of
reduces the amount of interactions we have with each other.
I think, okay, so imagine hypothetically you have friends.
You know, I don't want to be your friends.
Hypothetically, I imagine.
You know, expect yourself to have friends.
They don't know the 30s or 40s or 50s.
But that's actually totally normal.
It's totally fine.
The range of social space in much higher than it really is.
Oh, yeah.
The...
I think that you can have an infertile space that's not built just on the...
In age like...
Yeah, age like is much higher than you might...
Imagine...
A community to imagine a...
A social space that which every member of a family interacts
on a socially equitable, equitable area.
Have you had the youngest in the middle?
It's like a tribe.
It's like a family.
It's like a small social space.
But it's spread out to the fact that you can see some space
in the distance.
The further...
Canyon.


====== REC006.txt ======
You're okay, I can be on it, I can say, because they're out there with you for us.
But imagine, you have the interpersonal space, you have the bedroom, right?
You have your own space, you have your personal space.
This is yourself, this is who you are, this is your expression of your effort within.
And you expand its space to others, usually two, me three, and four.
It's like a club area, right? It's a club game, right?
And then you're moving forward, now you're in a small, trying to a small market space.
It's not market space.
I'm walking on online, and I'm on soap opera.
But what do you do here?
You don't see what I'm saying on here?
Because scope is an issue, like third person.
Third person.
Third person, because scope is an issue, I need to produce the amount of content developed,
so I'll make it first person, or third person.
Third person is solo.
So, I mean, the potential for coop is there, but it's not mandatory in a sense.
It's like you can unify the body, maybe.
Body or two, maybe four, just to explore with you.
You're close in its space.
But then you have the expanded space.
And the expanded space is you, interacting with characters, one on one.
Now, imagine this social space being conveyed by you.
You're climbing, you're jumping, you're exploring, you're, it's like Dark Souls, right?
But you're, instead of exploring these vast levels of fighting and combat,
you're, you're talking to people, like, oh, wow, that's intro.
Oh, wow, try that path.
That sentence is a good idea.
I'll try that area.
Whoa, wow, more space.
I can go, almost, Ellen, if it goes down the beginning of the heart.
I could see people doing things that most people are just kidding this game.
No, I mean, hypothetically, hypothetically.
Like, you could be picking animals on the side of the street.
Fucking get the fuck out of here.
I mean, like, what if you, what if you, what if you, what if you,
what if you're like, well, I'm sitting on the, on the, yeah.
And then you talk to another person, you're like, oh, you fucking, what if they were,
it's something interesting.
And then like, yeah.
And, but honestly, people would pay you fucking top dollar for that.
What if there's, you know,
Paul, imagine this.
Imagine this.
Imagine there is a second player in this space that was not yourself,
but another person.
No, that's what I'm saying.
And that, that second person is MMO, our, our PD is it.
No, imagine, imagine this.
Imagine this.
So with the player, like, so let's say somebody hates you, right?
Okay, like an NPC hates you.
Yeah.
And you know, you're like, hey, why do you hate me?
You're like, because this and that.
And then later on, the truth is, it's like dark souls,
where you have like, when you're reading the sinister bell,
and there's an enemy in the same level.
So basically, that person will be like, instigating people against you.
So that's like an instigation quest right there.
Instigation quest.
Instigation quest.
Instigation quest.
Instigation quest.
Instigation quest.
Instigation quest.
Instigation quest.
Instigation quest.
Instigation quest.
Instigation quest.
What if..
What if..
What if the player can jump into different time tile and chat?
And kind of mess with the NPC like what if just like an invader
if your social space comes in and like, monsters of NPC here?
Like yeah, you can he can evicus them to go in alteration,
turns the dialogue.
Hey, I know this like Iiyoruz kind of stuff.
So like, oh, I jumped into Thomas11, where's the mayo?
I made all of his NPCs made various shows.
No, I'm not like that, but like, you mess with him in the little bit.
People picked up the whole thing.
No, you act as the devil's advocate.
What if the player comes in?
The second player comes in.
He's spent all this time building this fucking social structure.
No, no, what if, what if, hey man.
Oh god.
He's on pause.
Pause, pause, pause.


====== REC008.txt ======
Online no like no not online long-term single player mostly most single player
Either original like eventually FPS
No, third person third person but it's gonna be third person because you know the this interactions and that yeah
Scope you create a social structure either in a building or a city or a city block
And you'll have your bedroom. You'll have an opposing an adversary online that can come in. It's not an action game
It's all conversating like a soap opera and you can have an adversary in your world
Come and fuck if your NPCs
And ruin that world ruin your world. So it's like yeah, that sounds super annoying
No, no NPCs are mostly normal right mostly most of us in regional interactions, right?
They're like no people characters, but then this this this
Spector can come in and affect them like oh make them angry
I'm gonna make you more than half of this makes you more fearful. I mean you think it's nice out of the off
I think that's like a DLC. The specter you are like mon something. You're like invading the space right?
You are the invader in Dark Souls, right?
No, it's a social space invaders
Because you know a mod is like it like goes against the question
We got it
So like if they were a spirit you could like
No, it's very
You can turn off these invaders. You don't need to have them in there. Yeah, that's just for more interesting interactions more
obscure interactions
Yes, please can we
I wish they were like I wish they was out here. I'm trying to extend to him
Um
I'll be articulate

