Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.6
Creation-Date: 2024-07-23T14:58:37-07:00

====== clSoulfulSeeds.txt ======
Hello, I'd like to submit an application to work for your foundation. I've a capable set of hands and am eager to learn some practical skill sets. I'm aware of permaculture and want to participate in making our communities more resilient to climate change. If you've time to teach, or have any of the mentioned education programs available, I'd be more than happy to make the trek to learn.

In regard to my work experience, I've spent untold hours stocking shelves and performing repetitive tasks at assembly lines. I'm reluctant to say that few of the skills attained through this labor would be applicable to life and I've not tried hard enough to better myself outside of work. That said, I have always felt a greater connection to the people in my labor than the job itself. Friends and acquaintances are something I can always take away from the work I do.

I most recently worked for The Great Basin Food Co-op, but they decided not to hire me after 9 days. I don't know what to blame for my failings, but in the end I wasn't what they were looking for and I feel nothing but anguish at what I'm to do next. Friends have suggested I apply for factory work again but I dread the idea of giving my soul away to these companies for years to come.

For transportation, I've got a reliable set of legs. When I was working at the Great Basin, I pushed myself to make the hour and thirty minute walk at 3am each morning. I do have a moped, but it's out of commission until I'm able to afford a mechanic or figure out how to repair it on my own.

And for time, I've got about two free months before my savings run dry. I'm hopeful this opportunity will afford me some connections towards paid labor that I can be proud of. I know that humanity is meant to do more meaningful work and I believe that this is the next step I need to find it. We can provide for others and for ourselves if we're able to acquire the right experience and knowledge.

My name is Chris Corella and you can reach me at (941) 928-2228.
Thank you so much for your time and consideration!
