Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.6
Creation-Date: 2024-08-15T22:12:22-07:00

====== IMG 2364.PNG ======
The Cured Short Film

Explore the concept of losing yourself. Would you still be the same person if you replace all the natural cells in your body with artifical ones? And if it's done gradually over a long period of time? Is erasing memories worse than death? Lose yourself through the loss of loved ones. 

Destory enemy emplacements to reveal drop zone locations for friendly equipment. (Gear needs to be powered, this connects it to an electricity source) Use scroll wheel to cycle through different gear when aimed on target. Study how RC reveals actionable locations. (e.g. how close the mouse needs to be to reveal the hologram) All human drops destroy the emplacement zone when destoryed, overloading it. Renlei drop zone equipment does not. And renlei AI can palce new gear if the player leaves the zone open. 

Equipment Drops Include
- Turrets (easy target, but high damage) It has limited ammunition, adds resources to the recycler. 
- Sentinels (weak, but high numbers) There's a limit to how many can spawn at once, but if a Sentinel is destoryed, nanites gather the parts and rebuild it at the spawn station. 
- Recycles (non-combat) recycle used ammunition cartridges, but can only produce ammo so long as droids are being destroyed. They 'fill up' and discharge a full magazine to each member in the squad when maxed. They spawn in giving squad members max ammunition.

Overloaded circuits can be repaired by squad members at slight risk. 

Rneli projectiles melt away armor. Those materials can't be re-used. If a solider loses all their armor, they're defenseless and need to be resupplied. Instead of revived. 

Ammo is represented by a rectangular colored area on the player/squad member's back. When the player reloads, they reach around and grab a handful of nanites from that area and slaps them into their weapon. The action leaves a finger-shaped dent in the rectanguar area, then the nanites reform rightmose into that shape. Nanites can behave like a lquid or solid. 

Resupply a squad member by gripping their hand (almost like a handshake) this splits in-half the giver's armor and gives it to the receiver. 

Armor isn't made out of nanites, but it's shaped by them. Ammo is however, made out of nanites. 

Humans are weak and vulnerable when their armor is stripped away. Fear builds up the longer they go without it. Droids will crush them if they come close, and their deaths are irreversible and potentially traumatic. 

Convenient chest high armor is almost non-existent. The player must order NPCs to 'make cover' by knocking over furniture, ripping up steel floors, and breaking objects to create a line of sight. Suit must have visible exoskeleton to comport to the player's concept of strengh. 
