Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.6
Creation-Date: 2024-07-23T22:58:32-07:00

====== salvage ======
10-OCT2019/New folder (3)
YOU SELECT FROM A CAST OF CHARACTERS TO PLAY AS (OOS*)
But if the focus is not Autumn, maybe you enter the role of anybody in the town during a repeating string of events. Winter, Spring, Summer: Mother Nature, Father Fortune? 

It's sky, now I heard it, it was lessons never been in a rule, Skondas, empty to go suffering,
cause in or have four truths empty, no attainment, let go, everyone, and lighten them.

parsimonious behavior
unwilling to spend money or use resources; stingy or frugal.
"even the parsimonious Joe paid for drinks all round"

REC002
So when the player pulls right trigger or left trigger as they're running, they will leap upwards, kind of jump up to grab.
So this plays really well into the movement system.
I kind of encourage you to grab before the grab is tied to the leap, so you grab as you jump.
And this works really well for the encouraging navigation normally.
You're pulling triggers to leap in a direction instead of A for jump.
It's the right trigger and left trigger.
And if you're climbing, you're using right trigger and left trigger to climb, right?
But then you get to a point where you reach the max height of this particular path.
So you're holding right trigger, hanging on.
And then now you can look around with the left stick and the right stick.
And then you can use left trigger to jump to confirm a leap towards a particular obstacle.

So, a note for the climbing system, to grab an obstacle, grab an object, you say for example,
hold right trigger to leap out and grab it.
Now, if you let go of right trigger, it'll drop. The character will let go.
But if you hold right trigger and then use the right and the length start to look around,
your character will now aim with a free hand, where they're going to go next.
And you tap right trigger and let go of right trigger.
Or just tap left trigger in general to leap. They're confirmed to leap.
And you're going back before I've seen those two controls.
So, it ties into the conversation system.

It's sky, now I heard it, it was lessons never been in a rule, Skondas, empty to go suffering,
cause in or have four truths empty, no attainment, let go, everyone, and lighten them. 
(REC007/10-OCT2019)

Farsimonious? Farsimonious? Farsimonious behavior.
(REC005/10-OCT2019)


It's the reason we find recourse. [WHAT IS?] 
(REC015/10-OCT2019)
