Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.6
Creation-Date: 2025-03-10T16:18:51-07:00

Noxii: Terminal Velocity
Game Design Document
Veritable Games | 12/13/2018
Overview
Elevator Pitch
Noxii is a lethally competitive 12 player skydiving game [the hook] with earnable cosmetics, local split-
screen, online matches, and AI support [the kicker].
Game Description
You and eleven others fight for your life in a fatal skydiving tournament; dive, dash, and bash your
descent to victory! Claim the solitary parachute hurtling towards the ground at terminal velocity and
earn your freedom!
Development Goals
Craft a competitive, unique racing game akin to the Mario Kart franchise with mature themes.
Let players unlock cosmetics by playing the game instead of submitting to RNG slot machines.
No rubberbanding! Skill-based racing experience with a balanced set of catch-up mechanics.
Player Mechanics
Controls
Dive – RT or RMB to dive, letting go will put the player in free fall pose and slow them down. Arm
boosters power the acceleration
Dash – Tapping the A button while leaning the left analog stick will let the player dash in that direction
using the suit's boosters. If the player presses A without leaning the analog stick, they will dash
downward, this is great for breaking obstacles quickly at a minor cost to health.
Brace – Holding/Tapping the X button will make the player character Brace for impact. Doing this will
always mitigate damage and prevent Stun but it will also slow the player's Velocity.
Bash – When an enemy is near, locking on to them with LT and pressing the A button will let you Bash
them away. (Locking function makes this mechanic more accessible in a 3D space) They can react to this
by Bracing before impact, or avoid the attack by Dashing away.Variables
Health – Visually represented by diegetic HUD, health takes the form of suit damage, injuries to the
player character, changes to animation, and audio cues like coarse breathing.
Stun – Some obstacles and items will Stun the player. This effect reduces the overall control of their
Noxii and will slow their Velocity but it won't incur any damage penalty.
Velocity – The speed at which the player is falling. This variable is affected by wind resistance (really just
reduced maximum speed) and whatever booster type the player is using.
Death – If a player loses all their health, they're treated to a wonderfully violent die-o-rama animation
that shows them dying to whatever took the last bit of HP. Player will respawn as a spectator bot that
has a full range of motion in any direction they like and Coin is still earned.
Equipment Pickups
All items can be acquired by hitting marked targets during the descent. The items given have different
odds depending on a player's health, position, and distance from the goal. Items are deployed and
attached to players via drones and are visually represented on the player's suit.
*Drop percentages and statistical effects of equipment should be determined via playtesting.
Offense Items
Rocket – A projectile that is thrown downward. If a Rocket hits a player, it will stun them and slow them
down. Rockets can be avoided with a well-timed spin and they come in 1, 2, or 3s.
Missile – A single-use tracking projectile that locks onto the player ahead of the one using it and sends
them into a Spiral if it hits. Missiles can be avoided with a well-timed Spin
Saboteur – The most powerful projectile in the game. Saboteur Drones will target any player in first,
second, or third place and will avoid all obstacles along its immediate path. They can be devastating
when used and have a small counter window.
Defense Items
Buddy – This rare item will automatically deflect or destroy incoming projectiles. It lasts for 10 seconds
and can defend against as many attacks as needed in that time. It looks like a tiny robot that yells and
cheers every time it fends off attacks.
Mender – A drone with a limited healing ability. It can seal small wounds, repair the player's suit, and
cauterize serious injuries. Common drop, does not appear if player is undamaged.
Red Mender – A special variant of the Mender drone that will actively seek out and fully heal any player
that needs health, but take away weapons if they accept its help. It will appear once for every player in
in the level but can be used multiple times by different people.
Ward – This trap will knock back anyone that goes near it with a quick, but powerful burst of
compressed gas, stunning them momentarily and slowing their Velocity. Common item.Speed Items
Refined Fuel – An item that gives players a short, controlled burst of speed when used. It can be found
in drops of one, two, or three. Using all three in succession will result in burn out of the arm boosters
and a huge cost to the player's speed.
Faulty Jetpack – A recovery Item that gives a huge speed boost and invulnerability to players that are
falling behind. The farther away a player is from the leader, the higher their chances of getting the item.
Faulty Jetpacks can bolster a player's normal bash attack, knocking them into a violent spin and
potentially killing them if they hit an object. These items are also rigged to explode after they reach a
certain position in the race or used for X amount of time. Timer is represented by a beeping noise.
Player needs to throw the backpack to get rid of it before it explodes or they incur a death penalty.
Jetpacks can be thrown to stun opponents, and if timed right, kill them. It's this same system that can be
used to forfeit a parachute.
Level Design
Levels are downward facing cylindrical tunnels that span several miles. Choose from 16 maps that have a
wide range of environments, obstacles, hazards, traps, and modifiers. The maps can greatly affect
normal gameplay variables and influence player strategies as a result.
Level List
Capital – Largest city on the planet; incredibly dense, and difficult to navigate due to traffic.
Factory – This is where the Capital's military Droids are manufactured. Very dangerous.
Garden – Sparsely planted agriculture for a struggling civilization. Largest map in the game.
Remnant – An abandoned city mostly devoid of life; extremely hazardous, average depth.
Level Systems
Dropship – Every participant in the match starts from the Dropship. It hovers above the chasm below
and launches the booster propelled parachute seconds before everyone dives after it.
Stadium – This is the landing zone for victors and the impact point for those that failed. Here, the
scoreboard is shown, earned Coin is added up, and the crowd cheers with excitement.
Level Objects
Air Current – When the player passes over this object, they’ll get a permanent boost in speed until
they’re interrupted by an item, obstacle, or another player. The speed gained can stack with multiple
currents but will fall off when the player is no longer in contact with the item.
Wall – Surface texture doesn't convey danger, contact with walls will only stun players.
Jagged Wall – Visually rough and designed to convey danger. Usually placed in tight spaces or used to
redirect the player, these walls will stun and lightly damage players.Grabber – Arm-like machines that will snatch up a player mid-drop and redirect their them; often
opening up new paths and sometimes right into obstacles or hazards.
Nav Drone – Drone that will hover into a player's sight when the 'view' button is pressed. It displays
everyone's position and gives a basic glimpse at their score so far. It will hover away after a few seconds
and can also be destroyed by environmental hazards in the descent.
Announcer
Death Dive games are hosted by an announcer. He'll appear on a hovering display similar to the Nav
Drone and is the only character that reveals their face. He has a slightly-off color nose and fingers that
are shown to be prosthetics; the consequences of untreated deep frostbite.
Rendering
Levels are separated by various types of entrances that serve as loading areas to keep the performane in
check and rendering cost low. Doors, smaller tunnels, large obstacles, etc.
Unlock Systems
Rewards
Coin [¢] – A Noxii's reward for participating in the competition. It can be traded for cosmetics,
modifications that affect their maximum velocity or defense, and at a high cost, freedom.
Acclaims – Bonuses for performing certain actions during a match. The end-game screen will display
total earnings, how they were obtained, and then add them to the player's total Coin.
- Champion: 1500¢ - Reached the finish line and survived the landing.
- Challenger: 500¢ - Made it to the finish line but didn't survive the landing.
- Contestant: 150¢ - Died during the match and didn't make it to the finish alive
- Executioner: 50¢ - Killed a player or AI during a match, this stacks up to 11 for 550c
- Operator: 25¢ - Used equipment, this can be done as many times as available on a map.
- Attacker: 5¢ - Damaged an enemy by any means, this can be stacked ad infinitum.
Red Coin – Noxii usually only rewarded for being aggressive and competitive. So if a player were to
forfeit the option to attack when given the chance, they don't earn any coin for it at the end of a match.
However, if this happens, Red Coin is granted to them without any sort of explaination. Narratively, this
is the currency of a separatist faction and it can be used to buy additional parachutes for a single red
coin each or a special re-usable mender drone for 50¢.
Cosmetics
Players can obtain cosmetics with Coin by playing the game and earning Acclaims. Each of the items is
available for purchase as soon as the player has enough Coin to buy them. Prices will range from 500¢
to 10,000¢. Item categories include Head, Torso, Arms, Legs, and Colors.Gameplay Loop
Main menu > Dive > Loading mini-game > Cinematic overview of map, its obstacles, and a few of the
potential paths to take > Camera switches to view of the vehicle hovering above the chasm and its doors
open to reveal the players and bots huddled within > camera view swaps to the third person perspective
of the controlling player > countdown begins right as the parachute is thrown; it has a jetpack attached,
5, 4, 3, 2, 1, and everyone manually jumps > music begins and the tension builds as players reach the
edge of this immense chasm > using abilities and avoiding obstacles, players fight, struggle, and die for
the next 4 to 7 minutes in an effort to reach the parachute first > at the finish line, the parachute stops
speeding and players have a chance to reach it > match ends with the losing players hitting the ground
with a lethal impact, and if someone grabbed the parachute, they float to the bottom in whatever
physical state they ended in > every player is rewarded currency based on performance >players are
taken back to the lobby; here they can use this earned currency to buy cosmetics.
Narrative
Setting
The Noxii are criminals condemned to death by the Capital. A civilization on the frigid planet, Demeter.
They've been offered a chance to free themselves through the Capital's Death Dive games and few are
reluctant to try. Only one of twelve Noxii will survive these lethal games.
Death Dive games take place within the immense chasms this civilization uses as habitats to insulate
themselves from the harsh winter above the planet's surface. Every subsurface city has been
temporarily fitted with obstacles, environmental hazards, and equipment drops for participants to use.
Victors will be greeted by an audience of millions waiting for them deep beneath the surface at the end
of the level. Living spaces for Noxii are cramped and dingy.
Demeter is frozen, but cities are varied in design and function so level design isn't limited too much. Just
above the atmosphere lies the remains of a ring world that looks to have crashed into the planet's
surface some time ago. This is a small hint towards future potential projects.
Inhabitants of this ice world will usually have prosthetic fingers, noses, and toes due to the effects of
frostbite. The announcer character makes this particularly apparent in his design.
Backstory
Camera fades in focused on a figure wearing some form of flight helmet and a tattered suit that looks
like something an astronaut might wear. Red lights fill the cramped space, and you can see the outlines
of people with similar gear. The room they're in shakes and people try to maintain balance. A faint hum
is heard and light slowly flills the room, reflecting off the visor of the main character and those behind
them. People shiver as a gust of wind rolls in and snow flicks into the crowded room. Standing in the
rear, there are lanky machines that carry weapons. The camera pans out to reveal that all of these
people are occupying a quadcopter-like vehicle, and just below it is an enormous, dark chasm that go
beneath the snowy planet's surface. A loudspeaker blares, and the announcer speaks in a foreign
tongue. One of the tall machines steps forward and throws a backpack-like item into the abyss. It
suddenly lights up and propels itself downward; people murmur and moan, the main character isanxious. DING, DING, DING! People leap out of the vehicle screaming and howling, the character is
shoved from the vehicle and plummets into the chasm. All around them, others ignite boosters that are
rigged to their arms, accelerating their descent. Some try to fly up, but there isn't enough thrust to
escape gravity. The main character fiddles with a device in their hand and their own boosters spark to
life. Everyone is now diving into the deep abyss; those furthest ahead have their arms outstretched,
grasping to reach the item as as explosives, rockets, and traps go off.
Development Timeline
•Learn how to animate and potentially model in Maya
•Offer contract work; earn a rapport & gain experience
•-- This will take time. Save as much as you can in this period.
•Work on your project idea while you gain said experience.
•Outline, storyboard, and white box pre-viz cinematic
•Animate pre-viz and convey core gameplay mechanics
•Contract people to create assets for pre-visualization (Upwork or Fiber)
•-- Give detailed information and context about listed assets
•Publish finished animatic; find a way to gain attention for it
•--Publicize steam store page; encourage wish listing
•Start a blog and build a community (e.g. Discord)
•Develop a minimum viable product (demo) and polish it!
•Launch a Kickstarter, detail the goals of this small game
•-- Add the well-polished Demo to the steam store page
•-- Highlight the previously created pre-viz cinematic
•Build a representative vertical slice and find a publisher
•Establish Early Access as soon as the vertical slice is ready
•Develop planned content and polish, polish, polish
•Launch on Discord, Steam, and Epic game stores
•Plan development for your next major project
•-- Offer support for this game as long as it’s financially viable
Learn from Ashen pre-vizualization. How did it capture the viewer's attention?
Showcase gameplay via character perspective in short animatic.Write up a detailed asset list for contractors during the pre-viz phase.
Describe every item and their uses. Have Steam store page up when the teaser trailer launches. The
earlier people can wishlist it, the better.
Pre-develop content updates before launch. This will give your team breathing room for bug fixes and
maintanence.
figure out the controls for Distance on KB&M
