Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.6
Creation-Date: 2024-09-23T17:04:58-07:00

====== educator worker conditons ======
We're short in every aspect of education.
Everyone's just stretched thin.
I mean, we have trash cans that are full of trash
and not enough custodians to do their jobs.
I am now the only special ed math teacher in my school.
For 20 years, I've lived paycheck to paycheck.
And I know many teachers who have had to have second jobs.
But what we've said to teachers is, those are the standards.
If you're departing from that and you're teaching kids
based on race, you could be disciplined as a result of that.
But to actually teach our children that one group is
advantaged and another is disadvantaged
simply because of the color of their skin cuts across everything
we know to be true.
Governor Bill Lee has signed a bill that would censor academic discussions
about American history, race, and gender in Tennessee classrooms.
In our efforts to increase pay, we often hear, well, you know,
educators should do the work because they love to do the work
and they want to help kids.
But that's an unfair statement to make to expect that, you know,
we'll keep piling on, piling on, piling on,
and be critical at the same time and still expect you to do it for poverty wages.
One of the things that the governor has done successfully
is propose increasing minimum tier salary levels
and how we structure our pay for educators
to a much higher level than we've ever seen.
So a first year teacher would make $50,000.
That's a good wage in New Mexico.
Certainly it's not the end wage that we'd want to see for folks
in our schools, but it's a great first step.
The average educator now is at 64,000,
makes us the highest in the region,
and that's before we're going to add 7% raises.
So having a $15 minimum wage, for example,
in addition to that 7% is really going to be life changing,
especially for hourly educators.
Funding educators in a way that's dignified
should not be a political issue, but it is.
And so depending on who occupies the governor's mansion,
some groups shift positions, let's say.
And so this year because the crisis is so bad,
we have found sort of strange bedfellows in that sense,
where folks who had not been as enthusiastic
about compensation increases or increases
to health care coverage or pension coverage
are now suddenly saying these are great ideas.
These raises represent the difference
of being on Medicaid with your family,
the difference of having to have a second or third job
or doing tutoring work on the side,
the difference of driving the bus during the day
and having to take extra routes for extra curriculars
just to make ends meet.
So having these increased compensation flow down to the workers
gives people dignity.
It shows that their work is being respected.
I think the proposed raises in this year's legislative session
mean that we are finally going to be competitive
in this part of the country for people to want to come
to New Mexico to work and live and play,
and maybe we'll be able to be a role model
for other states surrounding us.
I can go to Texas, but they tell me
that I have to teach history a certain way.
I can go in Arizona, but you should hear the things
that their governor says about teachers.
Arizona kids are going to stay in their classroom
and we're not going to let the union thugs
play Chicago-like games in Arizona.
And then you look at New Mexico and go,
man, they're paying the same amount.
They are actually treated like professionals.
I think that will help with the shortage.
But there's a shortage nationwide.
We can't just do this on a New Mexico level.
Every state has to do this.
This has to be a national movement to get people
to go back into education.
There's work to be done to be clear.
I mean, we do need to continue to look at adjunct pay
at higher education institutions.
We need to look at increasing our minimum wage over time.
Our work is not done as far as remaining competitive
in the long term on salaries for the entire system.
Your own government.
