Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.6
Creation-Date: 2024-09-24T20:10:34-07:00

====== greed-of-dollar-general ======
This is Richard Wolf from Democracy at Work, responding to another Ask Prof Wolf question
from our Patreon community.
This question comes from Mir Usman, and it asks about the so-called debt trap of the situation
that particularly afflicts countries in Asia, Africa, and Latin America, but elsewhere
too, in which special problems they have, like COVID-19, or long-term economic development
problems they have had for decades, put them in a position of having to borrow money.
And they borrow money, usually from countries who give foreign aid or from banks who are
doing this to make money.
This kind of use of credit to help a country solve its problems is as old as capitalism,
maybe even a little bit older, before capitalism, when banks did this too.
And it has a terrible habit of growing forever.
First the bank borrows for assuming the country borrows from the bank for a particular project,
but then it has an additional problem.
Even more often the borrowers are political people, the government of a country, and they
use a part of the loan to be politically successful in their country, with only the rest of it
going to help develop the country.
And that doesn't generate enough growth to pay off the loan.
And who then has to do it, the mass of people.
So now the debt becomes a social problem.
And with all the other economic development problems in what we used to call the third world,
having to pay debt to a foreign bank is just an additional one.
And when it becomes difficult to do it, well, you go back and you borrow even more money
to pay off the debt you weren't able to pay before.
You put all these things together.
And third world countries, as we used to call them, developing countries, we call them
now, are constantly struggling with debt and never more so than now.
Keep in mind that when you read that the Federal Reserve is raising interest rates here in
the United States, many of those countries have borrowed and have to refinance at a higher
interest rate, costing them even more money that they don't have.
And Mir Usman says, how do we get out of this?
Is there a way to get out of it?
Do the country sometimes tax their own people to help pay for these loans that have accumulated?
The answer is, most of the time, they defer maintaining their roads to use the money to
pay off the debts.
They're like desperate people who are loaded up with too much debt and are then tempted
to borrow even more to get through the interest payments they have to make now.
Is there then an escape?
I'm afraid the answer is yes, it is.
There is one, but you have to face the politics of it because that's the core issue.
Most of the countries in debt have leading elite groups, corporations, big businesses,
local and foreign and wealthy people.
And much of the economic borrowing that the country did was because it did not have the
political strength, the political background, the political will to tax those in their
society who really could pay foreign and domestic corporations and the local rich.
As long as you don't do that, you're going to be confronting debt problems.
That's part of what it means to be a third world country.
And the irony of history has been those countries who refuse to play the game, who were
ostracized because they refused to play the game.
Because the ultimate threat to the little third world country in Asia, Africa and Latin
America is if you don't pay off the past debts, we won't give you anymore.
And then what will you do?
Your own people will throw you out of office because you weren't able to get the debt
to build the dam, to fix the roads, to recover from the hurricane, whatever it was.
And very few countries have the political will.
So the irony is, if you're shut off for other reasons, you may discover almost by accident
that in the long run, you're better off not borrowing and relying on your own resources.
And the best example in the world right now is the people's Republic of China.
Having made a communist revolution in 1949, they were cut off from credit.
The way most socialist and communist countries were.
And they had to do it on their own.
And they went after their rich people.
That was part of what their revolutions were about.
And they raised the resources from inside and ended up with a better story of working
their way out of the underdevelopment than all those countries that are relied on all
those debts, all those years.
So yes, there is a way out, but you need to have strong, mass-based political leaders
with the will to say no, to solve the problems not only internally, but with help of countries
like China who have their own reasons to help you to get out of the trap.
There is that way, but it is as so often a fundamentally political issue.
If discussions like these strike you as valuable additions to how these topics are dealt
with here in the United States and abroad, then please partner with us, share this video
with friends, family, co-workers, anyone who might be interested.
You know, we're coming up to 300,000 YouTube subscribers, an amazing achievement, we
are very proud, we're very close, and we ask those of you that haven't done it yet,
go to our YouTube channel, democracy at work, sign up, it doesn't cost anything, it helps
us reach our goal, it helps us reach a larger and larger audience.
And if these kinds of videos strike you as useful, please know that they're available
on Patreon, under our name, and likewise through our social media challenges.
Finally, if you can help defray some of the financial costs involved in all of this,
that will make us that more grateful to you as well.
Thank you.
