Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.6
Creation-Date: 2024-09-23T17:06:29-07:00

====== williamson-abortion-polling ======
Hi, I'm Mary M. Williamson. I've called myself a feminist since the 1970s. I have always been
throughout my career a fierce advocate of women, women's empowerment and women's leadership.
I have also been throughout my life 100% pro choice. And yet recently there have been
some attacks, misrepresenting my positions that have come from certain circles and I'd
like to use this video to clear those up.
In 1973, the Supreme Court made abortion legal in the United States. I think that was
a proper decision. And I agree with former President Bill Clinton that abortions in America
should be safe, legal, and rare. I believe abortion is a deeply personal issue. It should
be decided according to the dictates of one's own conscience. Abortion is an issue of private
not public morality. And I believe the government has no business making or restricting that
decision.
Yet there has been an ongoing assault on women's rights, particularly when it comes to our
reproductive freedoms. I have a deep concern about the chipping away of reproductive rights
in the United States. In fact, in several states, restrictive measures such as the closing
of abortion clinics and forced vaginal probes are currently in play. These are anathema
to me.
Indeed, the second decade of the 21st century has seen a sharp increase in anti-controceptive
and anti-abortion legislation in the United States, nearly eliminating access for many.
In 2013 alone, 22 states adopted 70 different restrictions, including limits on medical abortions
and bans on insurance coverage. This may be a rapidly accelerating trend.
In 2013, 27 of the 50 states were considered hostile to reproductive rights, more than double
the number in 2000, while the number of states with laws supportive of reproductive rights dropped
from 17 to 13. Today, a majority of US women, 56% living states considered hostile to reproductive
rights.
I will passionately resist any restriction of limitation on or diminishment of our reproductive
freedoms granted by Roe v Wade. The women of America need champions in Congress to stand
up for our most basic rights, and I will be that. I am proudly pro-choice when it comes
to reproductive rights, as well as every other issue supporting women in making their lives
all that they can be in the United States of America.
